Title: MoaR
Date: 2012-09-27
Tags: 
Slug: moar
Author: Snehasish
Summary: More about R

Starting from where I left of in the "Learning R" [note](http://www.snehasish.net/blog/post.php?filename=cG9zdHMvMjAxMi0wOS0yNC1MZWFybmluZyBSLm1k):

### Control Structures

1. `if(...)` conditions can be written in the standard format with assignment inside or in this fashion as shown, note that x should be a scalar value (i.e vector of length exactly 1).

		# Assign value to y on condition

		y <- if(x > 3){
			10
		} else {
			5
		}

2. `for(...)` loops can be written in various ways
		
		#Looping on a vector
		x <- ("a","b","c","d")

		# Type 1
		for(i in 1:4){
			print(x[i])
		}

		#Type 2
		for(i in seq_along(x)){
			print(x[i])	
		}

		#Type 3
		for(letter in x){
			print(letter)
		}

		#Looping on matrix indices
		#seq_len() is equivalent to Python's range()
		x <- matrix(1:12, 3,4)

		for(i in seq_len(nrow(x))){
			for(j in seq_len(ncol(x))){
				print(x[i,j])
			}
		}


3. `repeat` can be used for unfinite loops, terminated by using a conditional `break`
4. `next` can be used to skip an iteration
5. Functions in R are first class objects, thus allowing passing functions as parameters and nesting functions. Return is whatever the last line in the function evaluates.
6. Use the `args` function to find out all the arguments of a function. Named arguments useful for functions with long argument lists (Preserve order when using to be safe).
7. Lazy evaluation, errors thrown on use.
8. Variable args with `(...)`, but args named after this must be named explicitly.
9. R has separate function and object namespaces, thus its possible to have functions and objects with the same name. Also symbols not defined in the current environment will be searched for in the parent environment until we hit the top-level environment, then down the `search()` list until we hit the empty environment. So be very careful.
10. Loop functions (`apply` family) are used on lists/vectors and called on each element of the list/vector. The basic version of apply is `lappy` - the function is applied to all elements of the list without simplification.
11. `equal.count(...)` can partition the given data into desired number of ranges.

### Debugging in R

1. `traceback` prints out the function call stack once an error occurs. Does nothing if no error occurs.
2. `debug` step through functions one line at a time.
3. `browser` suspends the execution of the function whenever it is called and starts debugging.
4. `trace` allows insertion of debugging code into a function at specific places.
5. `recover` allows modification of the error behaviour so that the function call stack can be examined.

### Plotting in R

1. Using the `base` plotting package, you can create a plot incrementally (like Matlab).
    1. The function `par(...)` contains a lot of arguments which specify the properties of the plot. It's a getter/setter method. 
    2. `plot(...)` - Create a plot depending of the class of the object
    3. `lines(...)` - Add lines to a plot, needs a vector of `x` and `y` or a 2D matrix
    4. `points(...)` - Add points to a plot
    5. `text(...)` - Add text at `x,y` co-ordinates
    6. `mtext(...)` - Add margin text
    7. `axis(...)` - Add axis ticks and/or labels
2. Using the `lattice` graphics package, plots are created by a single function call with a large amount of arguments, its useful because then margins and layouts are generated automatically.
3. Workflow for plotting:
    1. Launch a graphics device (pdf, postscript, xfig, etc ...)
    2. Make a plot
    3. Close the graphics device
4. Margins of a plot are numbered 1 to 4, clockwise with 1 being the South margin.