Title: SPLASH2
Date: 2012-11-03
Tags: programming, benchmarks, parallel
Slug: splash-2
Author: Snehasish
Summary: Compiling SPLASH2 on modern systems

Recently I was had to compile and run the SPLASH2 benchmark suite. I obtained the package from Ken Barr's website [here](http://kbarr.net/splash2) and used the PARMACS implementation written by Bastiaan Stougie based on pthreads. I've since made some modifications to it to include macros to mark the begin and end of the region of interest (thread fork to join) for these applications. Here are some notes on fixing the problems I faced while doing so. The server configuration is an AMD Opteron running Ubuntu 10.04 (x86_64).

For all applications I removed the `-Olimit 2000` and `-lmpc` switches and added `-lpthread` in the included makefiles.

### barnes

1. Remove `#include "ulocks.h"` from `defs.H`
2. Add `#include <stdlib.h>` to `util.H`
3. Add `#include <errno.h>` to `util.H`, the need for this may manifest in 2 ways. Firstly, as noted in [this blog](http://thechatterjee.blogspot.ca/2009/07/barnes-hut-splash2-installation-fix.html) and secondly (as I observed), `ld` segfaults ( collect2: ld terminated with signal 11 [Segmentation fault]).

### lu

1. There is a semicolon missing at the end of line 203 in lu.C for both contiguous and non-contiguous versions of the program.

### volrend

1. Install libtiff4-dev if not installed, required for tiffio.h (easier than using the libtiff.Z package provided)
2. Comment out `char *calloc();` line 395 from main.C
3. Set or unset -DFLIP depending on endianess. On Opteron it needs to be unset.
4. Gunzip the input files (*.den.Z)
5. When passing the input name to the program, omit .den extension
6. And then it crashes after trying to allocate a density map of size ~6GB. Add -m32 to CFLAGS.
7. Set `PREPROCESS 1` and `RENDER_ONLY 0` in user_options.h
8. Clean *.o and executable and recompile
9. Running the executable now should give us .norm, .opc, .pyr files in the same dir as the .den file
10. Set `PREPROCESS 0` and `RENDER_ONLY 1` in user_options.h
11. Clean *.o and executable and recompile
12. Execute with n threads (for command line arg n, it forks off n-1 threads), you should get 4 tiff files, head_000X.tiff.

#### water-spatial

1. Remove extra `../` in makefile for path to m4 macro file.
2. Comment out redeclaration of `srandom()`, initia.C:52